1. The National Emblem of India, in a representative seal of the Republic of India that is adopted from the Lion Capital of Ashoka Pillar features a frieze with carvings of animals as—
A) Four lions standing back-to-back
B) Four lions standing back-to-back, a horse, a bull, an elephant and a lion
C) Four lions standing back-to-back, a horse and an elephant
D) A horse, a bull, an elephant and a lion
Ans: D
2. The ‘BrahMos’, a long-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile is a joint venture between the countries—
A) India and USA
B) India and Russia
C) India and Israel
D) India and China
Ans: B
3. Who among the following has not been awarded the Highest Civilian Award of Assam, ‘Asom Baibhav’?
A) Ratan Tata
B) Justice Ranjan Gogoi
C) Lovlina Borgohain
D) Lt. Gen. (Retd.) Rana Pratap Kalita
Ans: C
4. ‘Kokborok’ is an official language of which Indian State?
A) Arunachal Pradesh
B) Jharkhand
C) Chhattisgarh
D) Tripura
Ans: D
5. Purnima Devi Barman is an internationally acclaimed renowned Indian wildlife biologist and environmental conservationist from Assam, known for her remarkable work in protecting—
A) Rhinoceros
B) Greater adjutant stork
C) Vulture
D) Golden Langur
Ans: B
6. Which of the following facts is incorrect?
A) Global warming is the rise in the average temperature of the earth’s climate system
B) Eutrophication is observed in water bodies
C) The greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon
D) Ozone is harmless to breathe
Ans: D
7. Consider the following statements : i). The dam is built across river Mahanadi. ii). It is the longest dam of India. iii).The Debrigarh wildlife sanctuary is located near this dam. Which of the following dam is described in the statement above ?
A) Hirakud Dam
B) Mandira Dam
C) Nagarjuna Sagar Dam
D) Rihand Dam
Ans: A
8. In Rajya Sabha, total no. of seats reserved for Assam is—
A) 8
B) 7
C) 10
D) None of these
Ans: B
9. The Article 51A of Indian Constitution deals with—
A) Uniform Civil Code
B) Fundamental Duties
C) Freedom of Religion
D) Right to Education
Ans: B
10. The largest district of Assam in terms of geographical area is—
A) Dibrugarh
B) Kamrup
C) Karbi Anglong
D) Jorhat
Ans: C
11. The Orientalist-Anglicist Controversy was about—
A) Economic reforms in British India
B) Educational reforms in British India
C) Political reforms in British India
D) Technological reforms in British India
Ans: B
12. As per NEP 2020, the structure of School Education in India is—
A) 5+3+3+4
B) 3+2+5+5
C) 5+4+3+3
D) 5+3+2+5
Ans: A
13. Which of the following Indian languages are recognized as classical languages in 2024 ?
A) Marathi, Tamil, Assamese, Bengali and Pali
B) Marathi, Bengali, Assamese, Pali and Prakrit
C) Telugu, Tamil, Assamese, Pali and Bengali
D) Marathi, Bengali, Assamese, Odia and Pali
Ans: B
14. Which of the following is the longest National Highway (NH) of India connecting Srinagar to Kanyakumari ?
A) NH-48
B) NH-44
C) NH-27
D) NH-53
Ans: B
15. The Nobel Peace Prize 2024 was awarded to Nihon Hidankyo, a Japanese organization for—
A) advocating the equality in education and culture
B) advocating economic equality in the world
C) advocating the abolition of Nuclear weapons
D) advocating the use of sustainable development goals
Ans: C
16. Which Grand Slam tennis tournament is also known as ‘Australian Open’?
A) French Open
B) Wimbledon Championship
C) US Open
D) Australian Open
Ans: D
17. Motto of International Day of Yoga 2025 is—
A) Yoga for One Earth, One Health
B) Yoga for Self and Society
C) Yoga for Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam
D) Yoga for Humanity
Ans: A
18. Which organization has launched ‘Campus Calling’ programme to promote gender sensitivity and studies in society?
A) University Grants Commission (UGC)
B) National Commission for Women (NCW)
C) Ministry of Education
D) All India Council for Technical Education
Ans: B
19. What is the name of the awareness campaign launched by Indian Oil and Bharat Petroleum on fuel conservation ?
A) Saksham
B) Saksham Suraksha Abhiyan
C) Green India Initiative
D) Urja Raksha Mission
Ans: A
20. What is the primary objective of the ‘One Nation One Subscription’ (ONOS) scheme ?
A) To promote digital literacy among students
B) To provide access to top-tier international research articles and journals
C) To fund research projects in rural areas
D) To establish new universities across the country
Ans: B
21. When was Operation Sindoor launched by the Indian Armed Forces ?
A) May 6, 2025
B) May 7, 2025
C) May 8, 2025
D) May 10, 2025
Ans: B
22. Who among the following was awarded the Padma Shri Award in 2024 for social work in animal welfare and conservation ?
A) Sarseswar Basumatary
B) Drona Bhuyan
C) Parbati Barua
D) Phuleshwar
Ans: C
23. Who got the Sahitya Akademi Award in 2024 for the Assamese book ‘Dharmar Hator Chari Jan’ ?
A) Dipak Kumar Sharma
B) Arun Raja
C) Ranjit Laskar
D) Sangeeta Tanti
Ans: A
24. A network which helps in communicating regional, national, global information through large distances is called—
A) MAN
B) LAN
C) WAN
D) VAN
Ans: C
25. The country which hosted the first World Earth Summit on conservation of environment is—
A) USA
B) Brazil
C) India
D) UK
Ans: B
26. The meaning of effective teaching is—
A) attaining the learning objectives
B) delivering the content with louder voice
C) focusing on teachers teaching style
D) very disciplined and strict classroom
Ans: A
27. Which of the following teaching strategy is specifically proposed by NEP 2020 ?
A) Lecture strategy
B) Demonstration strategy
C) Cooperative learning strategy
D) Experiential learning strategy
Ans: D
28. Achievement tests are commonly used for the purpose of—
A) Making selections for a specific job
B) Selecting candidates for a course
C) Identifying strengths and weaknesses of learners
D) Assessing the amount of learning after teaching
Ans: D
29. The most appropriate meaning of learning is—
A) Acquisition of skills
B) Modification of behaviour
C) Personal adjustment
D) Inculcation of knowledge
Ans: B
30. A highly justified ground of using Teaching-Learning Material in teaching is—
A) It minimizes discipline problems in the classroom
B) It reduces teachers labour in teaching
C) It builds teachers good impression among the students
D) It provides effective engagement of the students in learning tasks
Ans: D
31. Learning objectives in teaching means—
A) High academic achievement of the students
B) Intended learning outcomes
C) Intended learning experiences given by a teacher
D) Modification of behaviour
Ans: B
32. Which of the following statement is incorrect about the use of teaching aids ?
A) They help the students to be engaged in the teaching
B) They enhance rote learning
C) They help students to be attentive in teaching
D) They enhance learners performance
Ans: B
33. Teaching through mother tongue at primary level is always preferable because—
A) It makes learning very easy for the students.
B) It makes learning very enjoyable for the students.
C) It makes students ready to learn in their natural atmosphere.
D) It makes students ready to learn fast.
Ans: C
34. A teacher should ask questions to his/her students during the class lecture to ensure mainly—
A) whether the students are listening to the lecture or not
B) whether the students are interested in listening to the lecture or not
C) whether the students are enjoying the lecture or not
D) whether the students are understanding the lecture or not
Ans: D
35. The basic reason for using Globe and a source of light by the teacher while teaching the concept of rotation in the class is—
A) Clarify the concept
B) Attract the students
C) Sustain interest of the students
D) Reduce boredom and anxiety of the students
Ans: A
36. In a certain office 3/4 of the workers are women, 1/3 of the married women are married and 3/5 of the married women have children. If 3/4 th of the men are married and 2/3 rd of the married men have children, what part of the workers is without children ?
A) 7/18
B) 29/40
C) 13/18
D) 5/18
Ans: B
37. The length of a rectangle is 25cm and its width is 18cm. When the length is increased to 30cm, what will be the width of the rectangle if the area remains the same ?
A) 7.5cm
B) 10cm
C) 15cm
D) 20cm
Ans: C
38. If either 12 men or 18 women can reap a field in 14 days, then 8 men and 16 women will reap the field in—
A) 16 days
B) 12 days
C) 8 days
D) 9 days
Ans: D
39. A family consists of a couple, their two sons and two daughters. The elder of the two sons who got married recently was blessed with two daughters. How many female members are there in the family ?
A) 4
B) 5
C) 6
D) 7
Ans: B
40. The average age of 10 members of a committee is the same as it was 4 years ago, because an old member has been replaced by a young member. Find how much younger is the new member.
A) 36 years
B) 40 years
C) 44 years
D) 39 years
Ans: B
41. If 4 means code, 6 implies divide, 9 implies subtract, 5 implies multiply, 8 implies addition, then what is the value of 25 8 2 6 9 5 ?
A) 405
B) 365
C) 140
D) 76
Ans: A
42. A sum of money doubles itself in 5 years at simple interest. What is the rate of interest per annum ?
A) 10%
B) 15%
C) 20%
D) 25%
Ans: C
43. A shopkeeper marks his goods 25% above cost price but allows 10% discount. What is his net profit percentage ?
A) 15%
B) 12.5%
C) 17.5%
D) 20.5%
Ans: B
44. A train crosses a pole in 15 secs and a 200 metre long platform in 25 secs. What is the length of the train ?
A) 150 metres
B) 200 metres
C) 300 metres
D) 400 metres
Ans: C
45. A boat travels 15km upstream in 5 hours and the same distance downstream in 3 hours. What is the speed of the boat in still water ?
A) 24km/hr
B) 15km/hr
C) 6km/hr
D) 4km/hr
Ans: D
46. Statement I : All the schools in the area had to be kept closed for most days of the week. Statement II : Many parents have withdrawn their children from the local schools.
A) Statement I is the cause and Statement II is effect.
B) Both the Statements I and II are independent causes.
C) Both the Statements I and II are effects of independent causes.
D) Both the Statements I and II are effects of some common cause.
Ans: D
47. In the following figure triangle represents Girls, rectangle represents players and circle represents coaches. Which part of the diagram represents the girls who are players but not coaches ? [IMG: Picture1.jpg]
A) P
B) Q
C) R
D) S
Ans: B
48. In a certain code, if ‘TREE’ is coded as 7100, ‘FROG’ as 2159, how is ‘FREE’ coded in that code ?
A) 3100
B) 2100
C) 1003
D) 1062
Ans: B
49. Which one of the following will replace the question mark ?
1 2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9
27 38 ?
A) 49
B) 50
C) 51
D) 52
Ans: A
50. If 5 cats can catch 5 mice in 5 minutes, how many cats are needed to catch 100 mice in 100 minutes ?
A) 5
B) 100
C) 20
D) 25
Ans: A
51. A man starts walking east for 8km, then turns north and walks 6km, then turns west and walks 8km. How far is he from his starting point ?
A) 6km
B) 8km
C) 10km
D) 14km
Ans: A
52. What comes next in the series : 2, 5, 10, 17, 26, ?
A) 33
B) 35
C) 37
D) 39
Ans: C
53. X introduces Y saying “She is the wife of the grandson of the only son of my grandfather.” How is Y related to X ?
A) Mother
B) Sister-in-law
C) Aunt
D) Sister-in-law
Ans: D
54. If A = 1, B = 2, Z = 26, what is the sum of the letters in ‘DOG’ ?
A) 25
B) 26
C) 27
D) 28
Ans: B
55. Fill in the blank with correct sequence : E m E E m E E ________
A) m
B) E
C) u
D) s
Ans: A
56. Identify the part of speech of the underlined word in the sentence given below : He quickly ran to the station.
A) Noun
B) Verb
C) Adjective
D) Adverb
Ans: D
57. Find out the synonyms for underlined word : The President and President-elect committed to staying in touch over the next several weeks and agreed their respective teams would continue to work together to effectuate a smooth transition.
A) Abandon
B) Prepare
C) Vanish
D) Accomplish
Ans: D
58. Identify the part of speech of the underlined word : However, there are a number of places and events that really must be seen and enjoyed if you are in London.
A) Adjective
B) Adverb
C) Article
D) Conjunction
Ans: D
59. Identify the figure of speech : “The moonlight danced on the water.”
A) Simile
B) Metaphor
C) Metonymy
D) Personification
Ans: D
60. Choose the correctly punctuated sentence :
A) Its not the books, that make the man.
B) It’s not the books that make the man.
C) None of the above
D) All of the above
Ans: B
61. Identify the meaning of the word ‘genuine’—
A) Irrelevant
B) Pertaining to Germany
C) Relevant and appropriate
D) Outdated
Ans: C
62. The word ‘altruistic’ means—
A) Kind
B) Gentle
C) Charitable
D) Careful
Ans: A
63. Which word is closest in meaning to the word ‘ubiquitous’?
A) Scarce
B) Available
C) Widespread
D) Infrequent
Ans: C
64. Which of the following is an example of a Complex sentence ?
A) I went to the store, and I bought bread.
B) The Sun is shining but I did not go out.
C) Although it was raining, I decided to walk.
D) I love playing basketball and I love watching movies.
Ans: D
65. Choose the one which conveys the meaning of the sentence correctly. I have read such a lot about him that I am looking forward to seeing him very much.
A) I am reading such a lot about him that I will be looking forward to seeing him very much.
B) I have read such a lot about him that I will be looking forward to seeing him very much.
C) I had read such a lot about him that I am looking forward to seeing him very much.
D) Having read such a lot about him that I am looking forward to seeing him very much.
Ans: D
66. What is the main idea presented in the passage ?
A) Participation of women in STEM fields.
B) Choice of career options by men and women and its relation to earnings.
C) Gender stereotypes
D) Both (A) and (B)
Ans: A
67. Why according to the writer of the passage, do girls face an anxiety while dealing with mathematics or science problems ?
A) Practice of gender stereotypes at home and in schools and communities
B) Girls are delicate by nature
C) Boys are born with analytical skills
D) None of the above
Ans: A
68. Which word in the passage means ‘third in order or level’?
A) tertiary
B) STEM
C) prospects
D) tertiary
Ans: A
69. What is the writer’s position regarding the subject in the passage ?
A) The writer seems to give preference to men in STEM fields
B) The writer is concerned about women choosing STEM subjects and pursuing career in them
C) The writer is assertive of gender stereotypes
D) All of options
Ans: B
70. What according to the writer, influences young women and men’s decisions about what to study in universities ?
A) Attitudes demanding a woman’s proficiency in mathematics and science fields
B) Preference for boys in the family
C) Preference for boys in the job market
D) All of the above
Ans: B